So I hope you had fun with
that particular exercise,
building your own inside page based on
some of the materials that I gave you.
I'm gonna talk through my particular
answer using the mosaic style layout and
then we had that one grid cell
that had the text inside of it.
So let's take a quick peek into
how I'd put that page together.
In the HTML, what I've done is
recycled the headers that I had from
the previous layout of the website and
all of the CSS that went along with that.
So that is the header and I kept down here
the footer of the webpage as well which we
coded in the Flexbox
portion of the course.
These two particular layouts, the header
and the footer, work really well
in Flexbox, I didn't really feel a need
to recode those inside of grid, so
I just left them alone.
The concept of a series of rows stacked
on top of each other worked with
this particular design of the website.
So I kept that concept as well.
And so that meant that here
inside of the content portion of
this web page,
I've set it up in the following way.
So I have a section,
I give it an ID of donut.
Here is the title of that section,
Sharon McCutcheon: Donut Love.
And then we have a series of images inside
of an unordered list as you would expect.
So here's my unordered list.
I have a list item,
I've given them a class of D1 to D5
as in donut 1 to donut number 5.
And we have images here with
the images themselves and
then the description that goes with them
and the descriptions are all the same.
They're just donuts with sprinkles.
Inside of number 3,
I added a div with a class of author.
It's an h3 for that particular heading
along with that particular text and
the links and so
forth are all inside of it.
That div with the class of author,
once again,
as always, managing our parents and
children here.
We have that div and
we have then after it the image.
So that means that within this li,
we can use grid to orient the text and
the image on top of each other.
And then they can separate
at smaller screen sizes.
So that's the the technique that I use
here with the overlapping grid cells.
All the rest of them
are pretty much the same,
the li with the donut image inside of it.
Now let's look at the CSS.
And so here in the CSS, all right,
so here in the CSS outside
of all of the media queries,
we have the following.
So I have a donut image.
I set that to its hack of a width of 100%.
The ul winds up being my grid parent or
the grid container.
And the li's wind up being my grid items.
So here outside of the media queries,
all I've said is display
as grid with a 1 rem gap and
one single column of 1fr wide.
That's all I did here.
And specifically for d3,
I set it on its own row, so
make sure it displays on the first
row of that particular cell.
Then as we go into the media queries,
down around line 476 in the CSS,
this is where all of that starts.
So here for the donut ul, I've set up my
two columns with a minimum of 100px s and
a maximum of 1fr because I want
my donuts to be big enough.
And then I've spelled out exactly where I
want each one of those images to display.
So I'm not anticipating
an unknown number of images.
This is an art site, I have five images,
those are the five that
we're gonna display.
And I've set them up to display
in a lovely sort of way.
So the interesting part of all of
this winds up being d3 which is,
as I've told you is possible before,
both a grid item and a grid container.
So, the first two, the grid column and
the grid row, make it a grid item and
that's indicating where it's gonna
display in the grid pattern.
And then inside of d3, we also have its
own grid where we have one column and
one row as I have showed you before.
So the d3 image and the author will
both occupy that same single row and
the single column that I had set up.
Then I give my image an opacity of 0.2
such that my text becomes readable,
and the image just sort of whites out
a little bit there in the background.
And then make sure that the author text
shows up on top, give it a little bit of
padding, give it as the index so it shows
up on top of the image and not behind it.
That's really important.
When you take a look at this because
of the opacity without the z-index,
let me show you what happens.
If we just did that much there, let me
show you this in the default browser.
So this is coated up with a couple
of links, but notice that because of
the opacity of the image, it looks
like you can read this text just fine.
It's no big deal, but
the links are unclickable
unless you add that bit of CSS there.
So if we put in that z-index and
then refresh our web page,
now those become clickable links.
So even if it looks right,
make sure you test it.
[LAUGH] Make sure you can
mouse over those links.
Make sure that they
are actually clickable.
Otherwise you need to adjust your z-index